End-to-End Testing

Simulating an application with end-to-end testing to verify expected actions took place.

Note: Commercial Feature

A commercial Vaadin subscription is required to use TestBench in your project.

- Start Free Trial
- See Pricing

End-to-end testing simulates an application, performs tasks specified using Java code, and verifies expected actions take place in application.

The TestBench end-to-end testing approach can visually inspect an application and detect unintentionally introduced changes. It can also verify that the application is visually OK in all browsers with which you’re testing.

TestBench also includes special support for other Vaadin products, making testing easy and robust compared to generic web testing solutions.

Although it’s not the main purpose of TestBench, you can also use the end-to-end testing approach to automate mundane tasks such as filling in forms.

TestBench supports JUnit 5 testing framework on end-to-end tests.

Features

Below are the main features of end-to-end testing:

- Control one or more browser instances from Java — both desktop and mobile browsers.
- A powerful and robust way to describe your tests so that they don’t break with application changes.
- A high-level API for finding the component with which you want to interact.
- Vaadin Component API for easy interaction with all Vaadin components and HTML elements.
- Automatic screen comparison, highlighting differences.
- Assertion-based UI state validation.
- Run tests in parallel.
- Test grid support to speed up tests by running in parallel on multiple browsers on selected operating systems.
- Support for JUnit and other testing frameworks.
- All features available in Selenium.

In addition to end-to-end testing, Vaadin also enables you to write browserless tests for your Vaadin applications. Each approach has their own advantages.

Topics

Getting Started
    Tutorial to begin doing end-to-end testing.
Installing WebDrivers
    How to install the proper, browser-specific WebDriver for tests.
Creating Tests
    How to create tests using TestBench.
Tests with Page Objects
    Creating maintainable tests using Page Objects.
Low-Level Element Interactions
    A list and description of helpers to use when a high-level API isn't available for interacting with components.
Taking & Comparing Screenshots
    Explains how to take screenshots and compare them in testing.
Advanced Testing Methods
    Describes advanced methods for testing a project.
Making Tests Reliable
    Tutorial on creating reliable tests.
Behavior-Driven Development
    A method of developing software starting with writing tests in plain spoken language.
Running Tests with Maven
    Using Maven to test projects.
Running Tests on a CI Server
    Factors to consider and configure when running tests on a CI Server.
Running Tests on Multiple Browsers
    Advice on running tests on multiple browsers.
Test Grid Set Up
    Explanations and examples on setting up a test grid.
