Vaadin Docs

Develop Web Apps with Java

Build scalable user interfaces with Java, using the integrated frameworks, tooling, and components of Vaadin.

Getting Started

Getting Help

Vaadin Community

If you’re stuck or need feedback on your implementation, the Vaadin forum is the perfect place to ask questions, share ideas, and connect with other developers.

Join the forum

Video Course & Certification

Prefer to learn by watching? The free Vaadin training videos cover the basics of Vaadin Flow development and help you to get certified.

Start video course

Learn about Extended Maintenance

Secure your Vaadin 24.x minor version for 15 years

Extended Maintenance now covers individual minor versions—get security patches and critical fixes without upgrading.

Learn about Extended Maintenance

Components

Browse Components

Vaadin Flow comes with over 40 UI components.

Browse all components

Grid

Vaadin Grid is a component for displaying tabular data, including various enhancements to grid renderings.

See Grid

Combo Box

Combo Box allows the user to choose a value from a filterable list of options presented in an overlay.

See Combo Box

Date Picker

Date Picker is an input field that allows the user to enter a date by typing or by selecting from a calendar overlay.

See Date Picker

Button

The Button component allows users to perform actions. It comes in several different style variants and supports icons as well as text labels.

See Button

App Layout

App Layout is a component for the root layout of a Vaadin application. It provides predefined areas for the navigation drawer, the header, and the view’s content.

See App Layout

Tools

Development Tools

Copilot

Edit your application directly in the browser yourself or ask the AI copilot to do it for you, and see the changes applied right there in the browser.

See Copilot

Acceleration Kits

AppSec Kit

Identify and manage security vulnerabilities in third-party dependencies.

See AppSec Kit

Azure Cloud Kit

Create scalable, highly-available, easily upgradable Vaadin applications, and deploy them to Azure Cloud.

Azure Cloud Kit Overview

Collaboration Kit Flow

The simplest way to build real-time collaboration into web applications.

See Collaboration Kit

Kubernetes Kit

Deploy your Vaadin application to Kubernetes, enabling scalability, high availability, and rolling updates.

See Kubernetes Kit

Observability Kit

Get insights into Flow applications at runtime and in production by monitoring application health, detecting unhandled errors and performance issues, and observing user behavior.

See Observability Kit

SSO Kit

Integrate your Vaadin application with third-party identity providers, and give users single sign-on capabilities.

See SSO Kit

Swing Kit

Swing Kit is designed to render Vaadin views inside Swing applications. You can gradually modernize your existing Swing application using Vaadin, upgrading the application view-by-view.

See Swing Kit

Other Tools

Multiplatform Runtime Flow

Run applications and components written with Vaadin 7/8 inside a Vaadin 10+ Flow application.

See Multiplatform Runtime

Designer

Create UIs visually by dragging and dropping components on a canvas.

See Designer
