Lumo

Lumo Theme Reference

Lumo is the original Vaadin theme. It’s based on a set of customizable style properties, and comes with built-in dark and compact variants.

[image: A small sample of Lumo style properties and their use in Vaadin components]

Lumo Style Properties Example & Use in Vaadin Components

The look and feel of all Vaadin components can be easily customized in a consistent manner across the entire application by supplying your own values to these style properties.

The built-in dark and compact variants are predefined sets of style property values that can be applied to the entire application or to parts of it.

The Lumo theme also includes a comprehensive set of CSS utility classes that can be applied to HTML elements and layout components through Java, to change their styling without writing any CSS of your own.

Enabling Lumo

Lumo can be enabled by adding a @StyleSheet annotation to your main application class. The Lumo class provides a constant for the path to the Lumo stylesheet:

[Java]
import com.vaadin.flow.theme.lumo.Lumo;

@StyleSheet(Lumo.STYLESHEET)
public class Application implements AppShellConfigurator {
    ...
}

Light & Dark Color Schemes

In the screenshot here, you can see the difference between the default light color variant on the left, and the dark variant on the right — which are both built into Lumo.

[image: Lumo theme Light and Dark variants]

Lumo supports automatic color scheme selection based on the user’s operating system or browser preference. See Color Schemes for how to apply different color schemes in your application.

Compact Preset

Lumo also has a compact preset that reduces fonts sizes — and proportionally all Vaadin components. It’s applied by loading an additional stylesheet containing a modified set of Lumo sizing properties:

[Java]
import com.vaadin.flow.theme.lumo.Lumo;

@StyleSheet(Lumo.STYLESHEET)
@StyleSheet(Lumo.COMPACT_STYLESHEET)
public class Application implements AppShellConfigurator {
    ...
}

Topics

The following topics are covered in this section:

Style Properties
    The style properties of the built-in Lumo theme.
Utility Classes
    List of Lumo utility classes and descriptions of them.
Responsive Utility Classes
    Applying styles based on screen size using Lumo's responsive breakpoint utility classes in Vaadin.
