Components

A list of available Vaadin components.

Categories & Resources

Data Entry

Text fields, date pickers, combo boxes, and everything you need for forms.

Form input components

Visualization & Interaction

Buttons, tables, menus, charts, etc.

Visualization and interaction components

Layouts

Components for structuring a UI without the need for CSS.

Layout components

Styling

[image: theme editor icon]

The styling of Vaadin components can be customized using style tokens, utility classes and custom CSS.

Read about how to style Vaadin components

Figma Libraries

Design and prototype application UIs in Figma using the official Vaadin Figma libraries.

See Figma Libraries

Accessibility

Designed for compliance with WCAG 2.1 level AA. Check the current status of components and read Vaadin’s accessibility statement.

<<https://vaadin.com/accessibility, Read about Vaadin Accessibility>>

Data Entry

Checkbox

Checkbox is an input field representing a binary choice.

See Checkbox

Combo Box

Combo Box allows the user to choose a value from a filterable list of options presented in an overlay.

See Combo Box

Custom Field

Custom Field is a component for wrapping multiple components as a single field.

See Custom Field

Date Picker

Date Picker is an input field that allows the user to enter a date by typing or by selecting from a calendar overlay.

See Date Picker

Date Time Picker

Date Time Picker is an input field for selecting both a date and a time.

See Date Time Picker

Email Field

Email Field is an extension of Text Field that accepts only email addresses as input.

See Email Field

List Box

List Box allows the user to select one or more values from a scrollable list of items.

See List Box

Number Field

Number Field is an input field that accepts only numeric input.

See Number Field

Message Input

Message Input allows users to author and send messages.

See Message Input

Multi-Select Combo Box

Multi-Select Combo Box allows the user to choose one or more values from a filterable list of options presented in an overlay.

See Multi-Select Combo Box

Password Field

Password Field is an input field for entering passwords.

See Password Field

Radio Button

Radio Button Group allows users to select one value among multiple choices.

See Radio Button

Rich Text Editor

Rich Text Editor allows the user to author text that has rich formatting.

See Rich Text Editor

Select

Select allows users to choose a single value from a list of options presented in an overlay.

See Select

Slider

Slider is an input field that lets users pick a numeric value within a range by dragging a thumb along a track. Use arrow keys for precise adjustments.

See Slider

Text Area

Text Area is an input field component that allows entry of multiple lines of text.

See Text Area

Text Field

Text Field allows users to enter text.

See Text Field

Time Picker

Time Picker is an input field for used entering or selecting a specific time.

See Time Picker

Upload

Upload allows the user to upload files, giving feedback to the user during the upload process.

See Upload

Visualization and Interaction

Auto Grid

Auto Grid is a component for displaying tabular data based on a Java backend service.

See Auto Grid

Accordion

Accordion is a vertically stacked set of expandable panels.

See Accordion

Avatar

Avatar is a graphical representation of an object or entity, for example, a person or an organization.

See Avatar

Badge

Badges are colored text elements containing small bits of information.

See Badge

Breadcrumbs

Breadcrumbs show the user’s location within an application’s hierarchy and provide links back to higher levels.

See Breadcrumbs

Button

The Button component allows users to perform actions. It comes in several different style variants and supports icons as well as text labels.

See Button

Charts

Charts is a feature-rich interactive charting library with a vast number of different chart types from basic plotting to complex financial charting.

See Charts

Card

The Card component is a versatile container for grouping related content and actions, with several customization options for layout and appearance.

See Card

Confirm Dialog

Confirm Dialog is a modal Dialog used to confirm user actions.

See Confirm Dialog

Context Menu

Context Menu is a component that you can attach to any component to display a context menu.

See Context Menu

CRUD

CRUD is a component for managing a dataset. It allows for easy displaying, editing, creating, and deleting of items.

See CRUD

Details

Details is an expandable panel for showing and hiding content from the user, to make the UI less cluttered.

See Details

Dialog

Dialog is a small window that can be used to present information and user interface elements in an overlay.

See Dialog

Grid

Vaadin Grid is a component for displaying tabular data, including various enhancements to grid renderings.

See Grid

Grid Pro

Grid Pro is an extension of the Grid component that provides inline editing with full keyboard navigation.

See Grid Pro

HTML Elements Flow

Vaadin Flow comes with a set of components for standard HTML elements.

See HTML Elements

Icons

Over 600 built-in icons for business applications.

See Icons

Markdown

The Markdown component renders content written in the Markdown syntax as HTML.

See Markdown

Map Flow

Map is a component for displaying geographical maps from various sources.

See Map

Menu Bar

Menu Bar is a horizontal button bar with hierarchical drop-down menus.

See Menu Bar

Message List

Message List allows you to show a list of messages, for example, a chat log.

See Message List

Notification

Notification is used to provide feedback to the user about activities, processes, and events in the application.

See Notification

Popover

A generic overlay whose position is anchored to an element in the UI.

See Popover

Progress Bar

Progress Bar shows the amount of completion of a task or process.

See Progress Bar

Scroller

Scroller is a container component that enables scrollable areas within the UI.

See Scroller

Side Navigation

Side Navigation provides a vertical list of navigation links with support for collapsible, nested sections.

See Side Navigation

Spreadsheet

Vaadin Spreadsheet allows displaying and interacting with the contents of an Excel file.

See Spreadsheet

Tabs

Tabs are used to organize and group content into sections that the user can navigate.

See Tabs

Tooltip

Tooltips are small pop-ups for providing additional information about other UI elements.

See Tooltip

Tree Grid

Tree Grid is a component for displaying hierarchical tabular data grouped into expandable nodes.

See Tree Grid

Virtual List

Virtual List allows you to render a long list of items inside a scrollable container without sacrificing performance.

See Virtual List

Layouts

App Layout

App Layout is a component for the root layout of a Vaadin application. It provides predefined areas for the navigation drawer, the header, and the view’s content.

See App Layout

Dashboard

A component for building static dashboard layouts and dynamic, user-configurable dashboards.

See Dashboard

Form Layout

Form Layout allows you to build responsive forms with multiple columns, and to position input labels above or to the side of the input.

See Form Layout

Horizontal Layout

Horizontal Layout places components side-by-side in a row.

See Horizontal Layout

Login

Login is a component that contains a log-in form. You can use it to authenticate the user with a username and password.

See Login

Master-Detail Layout

Master-Detail Layout is component for building UIs with a horizontally or vertically split pair consisting of a master area and a detail area that can responsively switch to an overlay.

See Master-Detail Layout

Split Layout

Split Layout is a component with two content areas and a draggable split handle between them.

See Split Layout

Vertical Layout

Vertical Layout places components top-to-bottom in a column.

See Vertical Layout

Didn’t Find What You Need?

Browse Vaadin Directory

Vaadin Directory is a place where you can find add-ons built by the community for your applications, such as components and themes, and share your work with other community members.

Vaadin Directory

Create Components in Java

You can create new components by combining and extending existing ones, or by constructing them using the Element Java API in Flow.

Create Components in Java

Integrate Web Components

Learn how you can integrate your own Web Components or other third-party W3C-standard Web Components into Vaadin applications.

Integrate Web Components
