Visual View Builder

Visual View Builder enables you to create new views with custom layouts and components without touching code.

Visual View Builder is a tool in the Vaadin Start playground application generator. It allows you to assemble custom views by dragging and dropping items into place. When you’re done, you can download and run the application locally, or share a preview with others.

Visual View Builder generates the required code declarations, configurations, and sample data for your application.

Tip: Theming & Other Features

Visual View Builder is part of the Vaadin Start playground. You can customize the application theme, settings (e.g., Java version), and more before downloading or sharing the application.

Creating a Project with Custom View

Go to https://start.vaadin.com and start new project in the playground. After opening a project, click + Add View. Then choose Layout with Content Areas from the list and confirm. This opens View Builder.

[image: Add New View Builder View to a Vaadin Start playground Project]

Building a View

Drag items from the menu in the toolbar to the view (see screenshot). You can place content and add containers with some pre-made components.

[image: Custom View with Components]

Working with Layouts

If you want to place items in a row, for example, you can do so by dragging a Horizontal Layout component from the toolbar on the side and then add items to it. You can use options on the popup toolbar to modify size and spacing of both layout and it’s items.

[image: Working with Layouts]

Alternatively, you can do the same with a Vertical Layout if you want the items arranged from top-to-bottom.

Deleting Items

If you’re unhappy with an item or its placement, you can delete it by clicking the trash icon in the toolbar — or by pressing Del.

Sharing

Once you’re ready, you can share the project with others either by copying its link and giving it to them, or by creating a GitHub repository for it. Click Share Preview to do so.

[image: view builder share]

You can find the GitHub publish feature in the Download Project dialog.

[image: view builder publish gh]

Downloading the Project

When you’re done with Visual View Builder and you’re ready to generate the application, click Download Project in the top right-hand corner of the screen. Incidentally, you can add as many views as you want before downloading the project.
